The “…”, in grammatical terms, is called an ELLIPSIS (not to be confused with ellipses, the plural for the mathematical term, ellipse, defined as a plane curve surrounding two focal points, such that for all points on the curve, the sum of the two distances to the focal points is a constant). Technically, the ellipsis is used in writing or printing to indicate an omission, especially of letters or words. For example, ellipsis are frequently used within quotations to jump from one prhase to another or for omitting unnecessary words that do not interfere with the meaning. Specifically, students writing research papers, for example, or newspapers quoting parts of speeches will often employ ellipsis to avoid copying longer parts of a quote that are either not needed or do not specifically add to the point the writer is trying to convey.

I am a huge abuser and misuser of the ellipsis and use it informally…AD NAUSEAM, especially in informal social media posts and rants. Per the technical, grammatical definition of the ellipsis, I misuse it by using it in place of creating a compound sentence with the use of the conjunction “and", preceeded by a comma. And perhaps I do it at times because I'm just being lazy, and its easier for me to use an ellipsis than to decide if all the rules have been met to denote a compound sentence that necessitates a comma. But more so, I use it NOT when expressing a “mundane” compound sentence, like for example: 'This house is too expensive, and that house is too small.' I use it more so when explaining a “cause and effect” scenario where I want the reader's predominant focus to be on the almost surprising nature of the leap in logic purported or demonstrated by the 2nd half of the sentence. In the same vein, only deeper into my thought process, I use it for cause/effect scenarios where there is perhaps an initial cause but a long line of causation being ommitted, going straight to the final effect, which may or may not be obvious to the reader….and when not obvious usually denotes a life event worth sharing, perhaps because it doesn't follow logic, or whose outcome expressed may be very unusual, odd or interesting to the reader.

More specifically, the informal use of the ellipsis is to denote an omission of anything after the first/main/primary cause up to, but of course, not including the final effect expressed by the writer. Realistically, the ellipsis in informal use in texts and posts serves as an arbitrary tool whose use is very condotional but that helps move things along, or speed things up a bit in today's time strspped climate. for both the reader and the writer by allowing for the omissions of potentially a long line of causation in between. More specifically, the omission takes place after the “first” or “primal” or “initial" cause is stated, and continues up to the ultimate point, or punch line if you will, is stated on the other/right side of the ellipsis. The actual substance, nature, and dare I say soundness of the causal links in between being omitted really are of no matter, as the informal use of the ellipsis can justify incredibly blind or questionable leaps in logic, and again often done so to create humor or for entertainment value in conversation.

I use the ellipsis most often to create dramatic effect, to get people to, in a sense, feel the incredibly fast and often chaotic nature of how one thing can seem to magically lead to another, and yet a more distant another, and so on, and so on, until what quickly results is some ultimate effect unforeseen. Thus is life. And the ellipsis is there to help capture these subtleties.

So from the readers perspective, the ellipsis serves as a grammatical road bump, or even a conceptual bridge if you will, that has the reader anticipating some logical change in direction, only to arrive at the proverbial BANG! on the other side, a surprise statement they may not have been expecting, creating a conceptual basis for the reader that places them much further down the road logically than they may have thought they'd be upon first encountering the statement. In the most extreme cases, going from one side of the ellipsis to the next side might, at first glance, constitute a complete breakdown in communication for the reader, due to the degree of the logical leap being outside the reader's conceptual framework. The reader would be left with what might seem to be very out of place and radical ultimate conclusions, but alas, the human brain is great at recognizing even the most hidden patterns and filling in the blanks. And, alas, use of the ellipsis places a passive duty on the reader to ultimately recognize it for what it is in informal Communication - a simple. often varied mechanism meant to direct the readers attention to one half of the sentence or the other, as well as to create a deliberate, ever so slight pause so as to force contemplation and reconciliation of what was first read and what silliness might be coming on the other side.

The ellipsis in informal writing should most often illicit simple humor and amusement, usually with regard to how radically things can progress. And the reader almost always seems to get it….or so I hope?!?! So again, in a way, the three periods (I use even more periods than 3 for more effect or for even greater leaps along the length of the causation chain or for the most unforeseeable outcomes…almost like a drum role) are almost, as I use them, warning signs to denote a large leap in logic along the length of some causal chain coming the reader's way. Not separating the two parts as separate sentences keeps what might seem at first glance to be two seemingly disconnected ideas connected in the readers' mind, forcing them like a riddle to make the ultimate connections in between, which may be a powerful experience for the reader if received correctly, making them feel as if they were “on the level" with the writer, and even that, through the natural process of filling in blanks, they are reading the writer's mind.

The ellipsis is a most effective tool for a highly tangential thinker such as myself, always leaping from one topic to another quickly and somehow connectedly, by way of the equalizer that is contrast. Along with informal misuse, I know I'm guilty of rampant over-use of the ellipsis, mostly as a result of lame attempts at subtle humor. But I also use it in another vain - to try to create a creshendo of reader anticipation and excitement, jumping to some ultimate effect or conclusion that is in itself either a bit exciting or even slightly controversial. And let's be honest, the ellipsis in informal use is shrouded by ubjectivity in its application, and, therefore, that long line of causation I'm omitting, the unsaid sequence of logic in between that the readers use to fill in the blanks, may actually result in a very different conceptual end..

Of course, i use the ellipsis often in my informal writing endeavors, as a premeditaed maneuver and because I have very few other tools but words by which to build reader attention and anticipation of the potential BOMB! coming their way. The way I'm describing this entiree process is overly complex, but truly understanding the ellipsis in informal use does require a leap in logic that can be verly dramatic and really stressing. But the intent is again to save time and highlight one side or the other of the sentence, for whatever peculiarities and absurdities it may hold, but by way of a final conclusion nonetheless, if only in that one sentence and nowhere else in the text.

Lets beg the llipsis came to be, this Example of formula “Primary Effect (A) … (=) Final, Incendiary Effect (B)" is as follows: “I was drinking beer at the bar alone after work one late afternoon, around 4p” = A. The “…” is the BOOM in the reader’s face, that leap over or omission of a lot of details, facts, and secondary causes, to reach the final effect. B = “1am rolls around, and there was a giant dance party mohappening on my living room floor!”. Even in the most common use of the ellipsis, it's always important to remember that the two thoughts, or two parts of the sentence should remain inextricably connected, even if huge omissions in logic are present between the two thoughts, in order to create the intended effect that an ellipsis in informal texting or messaging is designed to make.

Secondly, I use the ellipsis in cases of complex sentences with one independent clause and one dependent clause, even still keeping with the “and" or “but" conjunction that most commonly connects the two clauses, but almost wanting the reader to pause a bit longer on the weight and breadth of the independent clause before considering the usually weaker dependent clause. I use it sometimes as a way to discount the second part of the sentence (you should notice part 2 of my explanation is completely the converse to my 1st explanation above). By ALWAYS attaching the conjunction “and” or “but" to the second part of the sentence this time rather than dropping the conjunction completely as was the case for Part 1 of my diatribe, what is usually the shorter, dependent clause will now somehow seem conventional with the addition of the conjunction and even nominal, pushing the reader's attention back to what was written prior to the ellipsis. For the most part the conjunction does the damning work on the second half of the sentence; the ellipsis wasn't used to accentuate the second part of the sentence as it was in my 1st explanation above, rather it was meant to slow you down, like a road bump, and make you feel more focused on and connected to the virtue and importance, and even positivity of the smooth sailing that was the first phrase in the two part plot. Again, adding the conjunction “and” or (most likely) “but" after the ellipsis can have the effect of distancing or discounting that 2nd part of the sentence with the unflattering and normalizing effect the conjunction has on the reader's impression of the two phrases, with “but” illiciting potential feelings of having just read an afterthought or secondary idea. Here's an example I used today on a friend's post about coaching his kid's flag football team. As you read, realize I want the readers’ impression of what they read to place more weight on the first part, the positive part, but for all consideration, I, as the writer, couldn't be completely honest about the first part unless I added the second. I don't want the reader's thoughts to put much value on the 2nd part, so I separate them with the “road bump" that is the ellipsis AND the conjunction “but", perhaps even making it burdensome to read because the effects and lead up to part 2 aren't really needed considering it's value, allowing them to add to the disillusionment and burden with phrase 2, even tho, from a pure writer's perspective, it couldn't have gone unsaid, even if the reader completely discounts it in the end. The EXAMPLE is as follows: “A coach who is also the father of a player should be encouraged and excited by his son's progress, as his child and spouse would want and expect him to be, perhaps even more so than the next kid's progress...but never too much more.” The second part of this complex compound sentence is the usually shorter dependent clause. Use of the ellipsis with the conjunction “but" seems to place this clause in a completely, small, irrelevant place in the readers mind, more of an insignificant afterthought but nevertheless something that NEED be said. So though this second phrase may be important to add, the ellipsis switches the reader's conception of importance back to the first part of the sentence, before the reader came to the road bumps and then the shorter, less powerful statement. But the connection of the two thoughts or clauses, although contrary, were perhaps emotionally felt to be important by the writer to maintain a link between rather than separate into two sentences, because the clauses are in a very obscured but deep way, connected via some social or cultural fiber that is perhaps universally understood but not always talked about, or only understood between the individual writer and reader. In the end, the lowly dependent clause ends up, most often, across the board, being the conceptual “throw away” when such a complex thought is expressed among various people.

Lastly, I admit I COMPLETELY overexplained this just for neurotic fun, and, to be honest, I use the ellipsis haphazardly and, often times, simply when pausing between thoughts while writing….a pause in thought simply equating to hitting that space button 3 times out of habit just to feel like I'm movin on, keeping the proverbial ball rollin. So there's that…random, unexplained use of ellipsis simply because the writer's mind made an association between brain farts and pauses in thoughts to real quick taps of that spacebar to feel like he's still rolling along, connecting thoughts, even though his brain isn't quite sure where to go next…is completely acceptable.

Again, this is just MY own personal take on using this technique, in an informal way, especially in quick comments on social media, or when texting, intended for dramatic effect, where OMMISION is the best strategy when up against limited attention spans or space for a complete, dogmatic explanation of how one went from A to Z, in any particular scenario worth communicating about. Who knows…any and everyone who's ever read my comments or texts with ellipsis may not have any clue what effect I'm intending with the use of them and may just see it as a bad habit, rather than remotely coming close to the detailed analysis I've laid out here (see what I did there? bet you weren't expecting me in this long diatribe to all of the sudden arrive at complete and total self-deprecation of my writing and explanations) In the end, the ellipsis may have jumped the rails and gone rogue, grammatically, illiciting all kinds of surprises among mates, lovers, and spouses who understand, if even subtly, the connection to the ultimate effect the writer intended.

Anyone reading this please let me know what you think about this answer. Very much over explained myself but did it at least immerse you into the prior-to, unforeseen depths of social media communications and texting? And perhaps how we're attempting to supplant body language with subtleties of this nature to accommodate the frightening switch from in person communication to technologically based telecommunications. Interesting thought for why this explanation goes so deep.